Chicken piccata is an Italian-American favorite and one of the easiest weeknight dinner recipes to make at home. Juicy chicken breasts are dredged in flour, seared with a golden crust, then simmered in a lemon butter sauce with a touch of capers and parsley. It’s a beautiful and tasty dinner that comes together quickly!
What is Chicken Piccata?
Without a doubt — chicken piccata is the perfect fusion of Italian cooking in America. Traditionally, piccata is an Italian dish consisting of thinly breaded veal (or other proteins) with a lemon butter wine sauce. But today we’re using chicken, and I’d say we’ve perfected this dish that’s dotted with garlic, capers, and fresh parsley. The more herbs and garlic, the better, right?
And while we’re big fans of this Tuscan chicken or chicken Marsala, this chicken piccata recipe is another Italian-inspired favorite. It’s juicy, lemony, and just what you need to give chicken breasts a fresh new lift at dinner.
Chicken Piccata Recipe Ingredients
- Chicken: You’ll need a couple of large, boneless, skinless chicken breasts.
- Dredging Mixture: To achieve that golden crust, coat the chicken in a mixture of flour, freshly grated Parmesan cheese, salt, and pepper. I’m using arrowroot flour as a gluten-free option. But you could use almost any flour in this recipe, so choose your favorite.
- Chicken Piccata Sauce: This is the heart and soul of the recipe! The sauce consists of fresh lemon juice, a dry white wine, chicken broth, butter, garlic, capers, and fresh parsley. If you don’t want to use white wine, you could also substitute it with more chicken broth.
Find the printable recipe with measurements below in the recipe card.
How To Make Chicken Piccata
Slice the chicken. We’re going for a “scaloppine” type of dish here, which essentially means thinly sliced meat. So, you’ll need to slice the chicken breasts in half horizontally, as if you were going to butterfly them. Thinner chicken also cooks faster – something we all love on busy weeknights!
Coat the chicken. Mix the flour, parmesan, salt, and pepper in a shallow bowl or dish (using a plate can get a bit messy!). Then dredge the chicken in the mixture, coating both sides.
Cook the chicken. Heat the oil and butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Sear the chicken for 3 to 4 minutes per side, until perfectly golden. Then use tongs to remove the chicken pieces to a separate plate.
Make the sauce. Add the wine and garlic to the pan, letting it simmer for 3 to 4 minutes until reduced by about half. Then add the broth, lemon juice, capers, and butter. Keep stirring the sauce until it begins to simmer again.
Add the chicken. Add the chicken back to the pan. Spoon the sauce on top until each piece is coated well. Then let it simmer for 1 to 2 minutes until warmed through. And for the finishing touch, sprinkle some fresh parsley on top!
Storage Tips
Don’t be alarmed if there are no leftovers over. Yes, it’s that kind of recipe. But if you need to store any away, here’s how:
- To store: Store in an airtight container in the fridge for 3 to 4 days. Make sure to save all the extra sauce left in the pan as well!
- To freeze: You might want to plan ahead and make a second batch to store in the freezer! It will keep for up to 3 months in a freezer-safe container.
More Chicken Recipes
There are never enough chicken dinner ideas. So here are a few of my favorite chicken breast recipes to keep your weeknights a bit more interesting.
- Lemon Pepper Chicken
- Butter Chicken
- Teriyaki Chicken
- Grilled Chicken
- Air Fryer Chicken Breast (or this Best Baked Chicken Breast)
- Creamy Cajun Chicken
Without a doubt, this chicken piccata will become a dinner favorite. Give it a try and let me know how it turned out in the comment box below!
Chicken Piccata
Description
Video
Ingredients
For the chicken
- 2 large boneless skinless chicken breasts
- ¼ cup arrowroot flour (or other flour)
- ¼ cup finely grated parmesan cheese
- 1 teaspoon kosher salt
- ½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
- 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
- 1 tablespoon unsalted butter
For the sauce
- ½ cup dry white wine (or chicken broth)
- 4 garlic cloves, minced
- 1 cup chicken broth
- 3 tablespoons lemon juice (from about 1 lemon)
- 2 tablespoons capers, drained
- 2 tablespoons unsalted butter
- 2 tablespoons roughly chopped fresh parsley
Instructions
- Cut the chicken: Slice the chicken breasts in half horizontally.
- Coat the chicken: Mix flour, parmesan, salt, and pepper in a shallow bowl or dish. Dredge the chicken in the mixture, coating both sides.
- Cook the chicken: Heat the oil and butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Sear the chicken for 3 to 4 minutes per side, until cooked through with a golden crust. Use tongs to remove the chicken to a plate.
- Make the sauce: Add the wine and garlic to the pan, letting it simmer for 3 to 4 minutes, until reduced by about half. Then add the broth, lemon juice, capers, and butter, stirring until it begins to simmer again.
- Add the chicken: Add the chicken back to the pan. Spoon the sauce on top and let it simmer for 1 to 2 minutes, until warmed through.
- Serve: Garnish with parsley before serving.
Lisa’s Tips
- As an alternative to slicing the chicken breasts in half, you could purchase 4 smaller chicken breasts and pound them thinner with a kitchen mallet.
Nutrition
©Downshiftology. Content and photographs are copyright protected. Sharing of this recipe is both encouraged and appreciated. Copying and/or pasting full recipes to any social media is strictly prohibited.
Brilliant! My new favourite go-to chicken dish. Being Australian, I’ve heard of Chicken Piccata on many American TV shows. The Aussie Italians that migrated in the 1950s and 1960s didn’t bring this recipe to our neck of the woods so I’ve always been curious as to what it tasted like! I’ll be making this again, for sure, thanks Lisa! :)
Glad you were able to finally get a taste of a dish you had always heard about, Sarah!
* * * please make recipes in SHARE format
I never loved white meat of chicken because it seemed so bland. That is until I tried this piccata recipe that then led me to marsala and now I’m hooked on both and look forward to checking out ALL of your recipes in which chicken breasts are the star and are fairly easy and fast to prepare.
Sometimes, it’s all about making the right sauce with it. Glad you’re loving those chicken recipes, Nancy!
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 🎂
Thank you so much for sharing your recipes with us! Love the cookbook! I made the chicken picata, it was excellent! Even my Sicilian boyfriend enjoyed it!💖
Thanks, Nina! Happy to hear both you and your husband are loving this dish.
I love chicken picatta and this recipe taught me how to make it at home. I serve it over angel hair pasta and add a simple veggie.
Homemade chicken piccata is the best! Glad you learned how to make it now, Roby.
I have made this recipe twice over the past week or so, and we all love it! My son in particular drools over it! I can’t get over how easy and delicious it is. Also, I am a huge fan of capers, so I particularly love this one. Thank you!
Wonderful! Glad everyone has been loving this chicken piccata dish, Michelle.
I absolutely loved this recipe. It was easy to make and the sauce and chicken was so good. The capers really made it. I’ve never made anything with capers. To me this recipe is classy and very tasty. Thumbs UP!
Thanks so much for your positive review, Becky! I’m glad you enjoyed the capers and this chicken piccata recipe.
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 🎂
Thank you so much for sharing your recipes with us! Love the cookbook! I made the chicken picata, it was excellent! Even my Sicilian boyfriend enjoyed it!💖
Thanks so much, Nina! Glad you both are loving this chicken picatta dish!
So good. Don’t change a thing. The thinner the chicken, the better, in my opinion, and you can never have too many capers. My family devoured this and has asked for more.
I agree, the more capers the better. Happy to hear you and your family loved the recipe, Kathy!
This was absolutely fabulous and very easy to make!
My husband loved it also!
Happy to hear both you and your husband enjoyed this chicken piccata, Lauren!
Can this be made a little in advance. I would like to serve to guests for a first time meeting them and don’t want to be cooking with my back to them as they first arrive. It sounds like a great choice
Hi Rebecca – I personally feel this recipe is best eaten right away, but it’s really up to you. The “crust” on the chicken will just go softer the longer it sits. But if you’re okay with that, then go ahead and make it a little in advance. I’m right there with you in not wanting my back to guests when they arrive. :)
This is one of our favorite meals. The lemon and capers are just delicious. It’s an easy meal that’s great for company, too. Just delicious.
This chicken picatta really is the best of all worlds! Glad you’re enjoying it, Mary.
Totally Love This Recipe! Simple and sooooo satisfying. Next will be protein pancakes!
Hi Kristine – Happy to hear you’re loving this chicken piccata recipe!
I have always used Giada’s chicken piccata recipe, but decided to try this one for a change. and Woo hoo, this one so so so much better than Giada’s. Maybe its the garlic, but hands down… much much better for sure.
Hi Beth – Happy to hear you found a new favorite chicken piccata recipe!
I made this reciipe tonight for the first time. Delicious! I did substitue almod flour for the arrowroot, rather than buy it specially for this recipe. It worked well and the taste was good, but I wonder if arrowroot would have thickened the sauce a little more. I also used chjeicken tenders rather than try to slice large chicken breasts. A little higher cost, but worth it in time saving and mess.
Thank you so much for sharing your tasty and healthful recipes with us. Even my picky eaters love them – and I love that I am getting them to eat healthy at least some of the time!
Hi Sue – yes, arrowroot flour is more of a thickener than almond flour. But happy you and your picky eaters loved the recipe!
We enjoyed it but found it a bit salty. Because the capers are salty, I wouldn’t add the salt next time.
You can always tweak the recipe to your liking, Lenore. Enjoy!
I made this for the first time tonight. It is delicious! I am so happy with the flavors and the way the sauce came together! Thank you Lisa for such wonderful recipes!!
Wonderful! I’m so glad your chicken piccata turned out perfectly, Letitia.
Hi Lisa! This one is another favorite of my family. It was pretty easy to make. It’s a lot more fun when I make the chicken portion and my husband handles the sauce portion. I just love it when we cook together. The chicken comes out very moist and we love the flavors of the capers, butter, and lemon. We add a little more broth instead of the cooking wine. We love to layer it on top of egg noodles, or steamed veggies.
What a lovely meal to cook together! Glad you both enjoyed this recipe, Janet.
What are your favorite sides to serve with this chicken?
Hi Jeanie – I love to make a side of mashed potatoes or roasted potatoes, along with a simple arugula salad tossed in my lemon vinaigrette with shaved parmesan. But you can also serve this with any other of your favorites roasted vegetables such as asparagus or broccoli.
delicious – love the capers in this recipe.
I’m so glad you’re loving this chicken piccata, Riva!
Love the recipe. I just needed more lemon, personally. Easy fix. Enjoy!
This recipe was very good and easy to prepare. The combination of wine, fresh lemon, and capers worked so well together. I will be making this again, for sure.
I’m so glad you loved this chicken piccata recipe, Joyce!
This is super delicious gonna recommend this to one of my friends to try this recipe 🤍
Happy to hear you loved this chicken piccata recipe, Zuhairaa!
Absolutely delicious Lisa ,thank you for what you do !!!!!
Thrilled to hear you loved this chicken piccata recipe, Deborah!
Amazing and delicious recipe. My favorite to make when having company. I prepare everything in advance (except dredging the chicken) and 10 minutes before dinner put it all together. Thanks for all you amazing healthy recipes
I bet this came together even quicker as you prepped most things in advance, Aminta. Enjoy!
Quick and tasty.
Glad you enjoyed this chicken piccata, Sam!
How do I find my saved recipes, please???
Thank you.
Linda B
Hi Linda – You can access your saved recipes by clicking the save button in the recipe card or by the floating heart on the right side of any recipe page. Hope that helps!
Absolutely delicious! An amazing and easy dinner recipe that is company worthy!
So glad you enjoyed it, Leslie! And I agree, with how simple it is to make, it’s perfect for when company is visiting.
I made this for Valentine’s Day dinner. It was great! It really is quick and easy. I used the thin cut chicken filets (bought this way) but I will do it the way Lisa did in her video. I would have liked it browner but was afraid to overcook them due to being so thin. It’s our new favorite!
What a perfect meal for Valentine’s Day, Karen! Happy to hear it was easy to make. Hopefully they will turn out more browned next time!
Hi Lisa:
You have a really true fan in Spain. I love your recipes, your videos, the website, etc.
It’s very useful to see the video and then to print the recipe and store it if necesary.
I’m celiac so your gluten free recipes are perfect for me.
I made this recipe today and we liked it a lot. I didn’t use capers as we don’t like them. I also made riceas a dish side to pour the sauce over it. Delicious.
Thank you!
Hi Maricarmen – I’m happy to hear you loved this chicken piccata, and enjoy my other recipes as well. On a personal note, I can’t wait to visit Spain later this year with my nephew. I’ve heard it’s such a beautiful country. And I’m sure I’ll get even more delicious recipe inspiration! :)
Tonight was the second time I made this and it didn’t disappoint. Quick and easy for a week night meal that tastes like you were in the kitchen all day preparing it!
This chicken piccata really is a dish that will impress! Happy to hear you’re loving this recipe, Liz. Enjoy!
Absolutely delicious. I just joined your group and I love it and so many recipes! So glad I found you!
Welcome to the Downshiftology community, Beth! Happy to hear you’re loving all the recipes so far.
Lisa,
Oh my God this turned out amazing, thank you so much for all you do. I love your meal prepping videos. I’ve learned so much from you. I wish you all the success in your future endeavors.
Warmly, Tina Shepherd
Thanks, Tina! I’m so glad you’re loving all the videos, and now this chicken piccata recipe.
I made it tonight. Delicious!
Thanks Lisa for another great recipe!
You’re more than welcome, Daniela! I’m happy you loved it!
This was delicious despite the fact I was out of wine and (didn’t know it until I’d started dinner) subbed Marsala. I also left the tablespoon of butter out of the chicken and used whipped butter in the sauce. I served it with half zoodles half chickpea thin spaghetti.
Your results sound amazing! I’m glad you enjoyed this chicken piccata dish, Heidi.
Delicious! Would not change a thing. Will be one of my faves.
Happy to hear you’re loving this chicken piccata, Lisa!
Oh my goodness! I was so surprised at how yummy this was. It’s so simple yet was flavorful. I really enjoy it with cauliflower mash with a little bit of the chicken sauce, yum 😋
Hi Maysara – Happy to hear you loved this chicken piccata recipe! Sounds great with a side of cauliflower mash.
Changes: I omitted the wine and lemon. As we don’t like much lemon, I subbed a tiny bit of vinegar for the lemon but probably could have just skipped. I used boneless chicken thighs as that’s what I had. I pounded them a bit thinner. Otherwise followed recipe and the kids ate without complaint!
I will add for those who like me ignore the unsalted butter recommendation, use UNSALTED butter for this recipe as between the capers and my salted butter it was a bit too much.
Thanks for another keeper.
Wonderful! Glad you were able to tweak this recipe to your liking.
This is my go-to recipe as I typically have the ingredients on hand. The crispy exterior of the chicken is the best! I’ve also made this without lemons and capers before and it still turns out delicious!
It’s a wonderful go-to recipe to have – glad you enjoy it!
Made this last night—yum! Thanks for another wonderful recipe!
You’re more than welcome, Christine! I’m glad you enjoyed it.
Tried this recipe it was amazing ! My family loved it. It’s so easy and felt like we were eating at an Italian restaurant. Definitely on our regular dinner schedule.
Wonderful! So happy to hear your family all loved it, Darlene!
This is the best recipe with lots of bang for the buck! Everyone raves about it and it’s my go to meal for company. The capers and lemon brightens the sauce. I serve with fettuccine. It’s a quick, simple but elegant dish!
Hi Linda – What a great meal to serve to guests! Happy to hear this recipe has always been a hit.
My son requested Chicken Piccata for his birthday dinner. So, I checked my favorite food blogger to see if you had the recipe and bingo! Thank you for providing so many delicious recipes. I’ve cooked a lot of your dishes and haven’t found one we haven’t loved.
Hi Tracy – I’m so glad this chicken piccata was a hit for your son’s birthday!
This was very easy to make and came out delicious. I doubled the recipe to feed 6 people and had 2 left over for lunch the following day. I also made extra sauce which to me is the best part. I served it with risotto and summer squash. Very happy guests.
Hi Susan – I’m so glad this chicken piccata worked out beautifully for a dinner party!